---
layout: post
title:  "AMPPS"
categories: netdevops
tags: Network Engineer
date: 2022-11-22
---

## AMPPS as a Platform

What is AMPPS?

AMPPS is a software stack from Softaculous enabling Apache, Mysql, MongoDB, PHP, Perl, Python and Softaculous auto-installer on a desktop. This includes everything you need for website development. Start developing your website from open source web applications or just start writing code yourself.

Easy to get. Free to use

You can perform Complex functions like backing up Database or Backing up your entire Website for that matter with just a click of a button. You can also Upgrade your Installations with a Click. Save the hassle while Importing your Scripts or Backing up your Website. Softaculous makes it as easy as it can get. The same workflow enables tasks to be completed rapidly and without navigating through multiple steps or pages.

Create your website

To get started creating websites, just download and install AMPPS with Softaculous auto-installer. You'll be up and running less than 5 minutes! Once AMPPS is installed, install the latest version of your favorite free web applications such as SitePad, Joomla!, WordPress, Magento, Dolphin using Softaculous.

## Features

Built into the Core

A complete package on your desktop same like the server that provides many open source web applications.

Small, but complete package

AMPPS is a free Web development tool that installs in minutes and brings together database software like MySQL, and programming languages into a single, integrated experience. AMPPS lets you code, and test PHP, Perl & Python applications.

Same like Server, on your Desktop

Using AMPPS with Softaculous on your desktop, you get the same powerful database engine, and environment that your Web site uses on the internet. This ensures that your transition from development to production is smooth and seamless.

Open Source Scripts

AMPPS with Softaculous connects you to a world of popular and free open-source Web applications, including Joomla!, WordPress, Magento, Dolphin and more. Simply select your favourite script, and it handles the downloading and installation of your new Web site.

Configuring AMPPS

AMPPS provides you to create and delete local or network domains. You can manage Apache and MySQL very easily with AMPPS. It also provides you a Security Centre to secure your AMPPS installation.

Database

You can create multiple MySQL and SQLite databases and manage them easily with phpMyAdmin and SQLite Manager. You can create, add, delete databases and can change the root password.

## Softaculous

AMPPS with Softaculous

Softaculous is ready for your desktops and office servers with AMPPS to boost your development. Like servers, now auto-install on your desktop too. AMPPS with Softaculous enables you to install 417 scripts on just the click of a button, no need of manual installation.

400+ Apps and increasing

Softaculous AMPPS helps you deploy Apps on your office servers and your desktops. We have covered a wide array of Categories so that everyone could find the required application one would need to power their business. AMPPS enables you to focus more on using applications rather than maintaining them. AMPPS is perfect for Web Developers and for use in an Office Environment.

Boost your development

Forget the manual installation even on your desktop now. Softaculous is ready for your desktop to boost your development. Softaculous provides you the auto-installation of your favourite scripts like Joomla!, WordPress, Magento, Dolphin and more by just the click of a button on your desktop.

Ready for the OFFICE

Experience the magic of installing 417 Scripts within seconds. Use the free trial to experience Softaculous and get a chance to install popular scripts like WordPress, Joomla, SMF, Drupal, Dolphin, PrestaShop and many more through Softaculous.

## Database

MySQL

MySQL is a relational database management system (RDBMS) that runs as a server providing multi-user access to a number of databases.

phpMyAdmin

phpMyAdmin is an open source tool written in PHP intended to handle the administration of MySQL with the use of a Browser. It can perform various tasks such as creating, modifying or deleting databases, tables, fields or rows; executing SQL statements; or managing users and permissions..

SQLite Manager

SQLite Manager is Web-based SQLite administration that handles the management of several databses.

## AMPPS Stack

The Stack

AMPPS installs Apache, MySQL, PHP, Perl and Python on your computer. It also install Softaculous that can be used to install hundreds of Apps.

Server

Apache: The Apache HTTP Server Project is an effort to develop and maintain an open-source HTTP server for modern operating systems including UNIX and Windows NT. The goal of this project is to provide a secure, efficient and extensible server that provides HTTP services in sync with the current HTTP standards.

Database

MySQL: MySQL is a relational database management system (RDBMS) that runs as a server providing multi-user access to a number of databases.

## Programming languages:

PHP

PHP is a general-purpose scripting language originally designed for web development to produce dynamic web pages. For this purpose, PHP code is embedded into the HTML source document and interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor module, which generates the web page document. It also has evolved to include a command-line interface capability and can be used in standalone graphical applications.

PERL

Perl is a highly capable, feature-rich programming language with over 23 years of development. Perl runs on over 100 platforms from portables to mainframes and is suitable for both rapid prototyping and large scale development projects.

Python

Python is an interpreted, general-purpose high-level programming language whose design philosophy emphasizes code readability. Python claims to "[combine] remarkable power with very clear syntax", and its standard library is large and comprehensive. Its use of indentation for block delimiters is unique among popular programming languages.

## DEMO

Installing AMPPS on Linux (Ubuntu)

A Step by Step instruction manual to successfully install AMPPS on Linux machine.

Installing AMPPS on Windows

A Step by Step instruction manual to successfully install AMPPS on Windows machine.