---
layout: post
title:  "Cisco VSS"
categories: netdevops
tags: Network Engineer
date: 2022-11-14
---

# [Short and Sweet Cisco VSS](https://networkphil.com/2016/01/18/short-and-sweet-cisco-vss/)

This post is a short, sweet and to the point copy/paste resource for configuring Cisco’s Virtual Switching System.



Cisco’s Virtual Switching System (VSS) is a pretty common technology that joins two physical Cisco Catalyst switches into one logical switch thereby joining the two data planes. It’s different from stacking switches because you can use regular ethernet cables rather than stackwise cables and modules. The two technologies are otherwise kind of similar in the benefits they offer.

VSS limits you to only two switches in a cluster (switching system), and is used for the 4500, 6500 and 6800 platforms. This is then a great technology to build chassis redundancy at a large distribution or core level. In my mind one of the biggest benefits is multi-chassis etherchannel which provides both link *and* hardware fault tolerance for your switch uplinks or servers.

Below is an easy copy/paste config you can grab quick rather than dig through a white paper. VSL stands for “virtual switch link” which is the link for VSS traffic between the two switches. This example is from a pair of 4500X switches I put in not long ago and uses 4 port port-channel for the virtual switch link. There will be a bunch of QoS config that gets auto-generated as part of this brief process, and I’d personally tell anyone who asks that you did that part yourself manually and from memory.

 

**Switch 1**

conf t
switch virtual domain 10
switch 1
exit

int port-channel 5
description VSL for VSS
switchport
switch virtual link 1
no shut
exit

int range ten1/1 – 4
description VSL port for VSS
switchport mode trunk
channel-group 5 mode on
end

switch convert mode virtual

 

**Switch 2**

conf t
switch virtual domain 10
switch 2
exit

int port-channel 10
description VSL for VSS
switchport
switch virtual link 2
no shut
exit

int range ten1/1 – 4
description VSL port for VSS
switchport mode trunk
channel-group 10 mode on
end

switch convert mode virtual

 

**Verification**

sh switch virtual
sh switch virtual role
sh switch virtual link
sh switch virtual link port-channel